you
what does going viral on the internet
really mean and why does it happen so
quickly why is a financial institution
too big to fail how does a virus in
Africa and up in the United States in a
matter of hours why our Facebook and
Google such powerful companies are
creating global connections well in a
word networks but what our networks
everyone knows about their social
network but there are all different
kinds of networks you probably haven't
thought about networks are collections
of links which combine by specific rules
and behaviors if they are alive we say
that networks are alive because they are
in constant change over time the
connections within a network migrate and
concentrate in new places forming
evolving structures how the evolution
and concentration of constantly changing
connections occurs is the subject of a
whole discipline called network theory
we can think of networks as
neighborhoods neighborhoods are defined
by maps a google map demonstrates the
relationship between locations in
exactly the same fashion a network
connects hubs or nodes using streets as
links to connect neighborhoods the
reason a network can expand and evolve
so quickly is based upon a mathematical
concept called power functions a power
function is a mathematical amplification
mechanism which over specific and very
small ranges accelerates changes
logarithmic Li that is a very small
change in one parameter produces a huge
change in another over a very specific
range of values an example of how
network structure emerges is the
algorithm used by Google as the number
of links around a search term say
friends increases connections begin to
form among millions of different
searches using the term friend what
Google has cleverly accomplished is a
real-time mathematical model for how to
predict the emergence of growing
connections among billions of search
terms the algorithm Google derived
collects the number of references to any
search object as references
to a search object increase the number
of links also increases creating a node
as the node increases in size it
eventually becomes a hub which links to
many nodes networks will continue to
emerge as new ways of connecting and
creating neighborhoods are defined
perhaps you can begin to see why
networks are so powerful as Google
continues to collect the billions of
daily searches new clusters of links
will rapidly emerge forming additional
and growing networks
despite the logarithmic expansion of
your network the laws of six degrees of
separation still apply therefore if you
explore close friends or acquaintances
in your Facebook Network everyone on
average will be separated by six
individuals or less and the map of your
social network will create neighborhoods
linked by common connections among
friends
Oh